
 1. For social geographers, place matters. Use one example to explain how and why place matters. 
In geography, Geographers refer “location” in to two categories, absolute and relative. “place matters” refers to relative location.

An understanding of the socially constructed nature of space & place;  that most differences between people  are not the results of inherent characteristics.  Note: Space tends to be more abstract than place; place can be understood as space that has specific meaning. 

For SGers, Social Behavior and Social Relations are Spatial


Social Geography_Whats That 
pp.15

““I study how
spaces are organized for the purposes of health and health care” or “ I am interested
in how people experience different places differently.” As is the case in many other
places, people were perplexed by my interest in geography and HIV/AIDS. What
could a geographer possibly be studying about AIDS? “Are you mapping AIDS?”
someone might ask. Over time, as my Thai language skills got better, I nuanced my
response to these questions; I began to identify not as a geographer (nakphumisat)
but as a social geographer (nakphumisat thang sangkhom). This qualification seemed
to work, as people began to identify me as someone who was interested in social
issues related to the practices of social institutions, such as the health care and
educational sectors, governmental and political organizations, and nongovernmental
and community-based networks and associations. At the time, I didn’t think much
of this switch. To be honest, like most of my colleagues in graduate school, I wasn’t
a big fan of subdsicplinary labels. But, upon reflection, I see this qualification, as
someone who is a social geographer and not just a geographer, as an important one.
It is important because it signals that my interests lie in questions related to the
social, to the dynamic geographies of difference and inequality that are central to
the everyday lives of so many people, not the least of whom were people at the
center of my research, those living with HIV and AIDS in northern Thailand.”


2. According to the film “Commanding Heights,” who are the principal actors (theorists & politicians), and what are the major ideological, political, ideological, and economic strategy shifts between 1920 and 2000?
3. What is Polanyi’s critique of neoliberalism? What does Polanyi mean, “Our thesis is that the idea of a self-adjusting market implied a stark utopia…?”
4. Define Neoliberalism and Social Democracy. In your answer, explain their understanding of freedom, justice, individuals, and solidarity. How does each understand the relationship between the state, economy, and society?
5. What are the effects of neoliberalism on inequality and culture (e.g., values, ethics, etc), according to the neoliberals and social democrats?
6. Explain how neoliberal globalization is reconfiguring space with reference to the shift in the (economic) global division of labor. In your answer reference patterns of global trade and investment, and characteristics of national economies and employment patterns (e.g., the US versus China).
7. How does labor fit into the post-1980 transition in England and the U.S.? What was the significance of the PATCO strike in the U.S. and the miner’s strike in England?



Definitions/Identifications:
 Social geography.
 Public geography.
 Socio-spatial dialectic.
 Polanyi’s notion of embeddedness.
 Self-regulated markets.
 Globalization vs. neoliberal globalization.
 Fictitious commodities: Define the term and identify the three.
 Welfare state vs. neoliberal state.
 Polanyi’s double movement.
 Wagner Act and the Taft-Hartley Act.
 3 forms of employer resistance to labor.
 Liberalization.
 Laissez-faire
 Stagflation.
 Privatization and deregulation.
 Intersectionality
 Democratic deficit
 Corpocracy
 Superterritoriality
 Marketization
 PATCO